feat: add postgreSQL Hooks docs (#19310)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/pages/guides/auth/auth-postgres-hooks.mdx

- Support legacy systems by integrating with identity credentials from external authentication systems
- Add additional custom claims to your JWT

You can use hooks at specific points along an Auth flow to perform custom behaviour via PostgreSQL Functions.  Currently, the following hooks are available:

**Teams and** **Enterprise**

- MFA Verification Attempt Hook
- Password Verification Attempt Hook

**Free**

- Custom Access Token Hook

Below is a flow chart illustrating how Supabase Auth makes use of an Auth Hook:

<Mermaid
 chart={`flowchart TD
    subgraph Supabase Auth
    Start[Event Occurs] --> DecisionA{Is a Hook defined?}

    ValidityCheck --Yes-->ContinueFlow[Continue with flow]
    ValidityCheck --No-->Error(Return Error)

    DecisionA -- No ---->H[Continue with Supabase Default Behaviour]
    H--> ValidityCheck{Is response valid?}
    DecisionA --Yes--->ValidateInput((Validate Inputs))
        ValidateOutput -->ContinueFlow
    end

    subgraph Auth Hook
    ValidateInput ---->CallHook[Execute PostgreSQL Function]

    CallHook ---> ValidateOutput((Validate Outputs))
    end`}

>     />

Reviewer: Create a task for design team to make this prettier.

> ## Use Cases

Reviewer: What I would suggest here is to:

- Split the "spec" from the "example" -- have one section explaining each hook's description, inputs and outputs (maybe a table would work? try it)
- In the examples section use tabs so the page does not get huge / busy.

Reviewer: Further comments on this I think a structure similar to this one conveys the message better:

1. Page title and intro text
2. What are hooks? (Technical explanation, table of available hooks)
3. Creating and managing hooks
4. Available hooks
    1. Custom access token
        1. Inputs, outputs, best practices
        2. Examples (Tabs)
    3. MFA verification attempts
        1. Inputs, outputs, best practices
        2. Examples (Tabs)
    4. Password verification attempts
        1. Inputs, outputs, best practices
        2. Examples (Tabs)
5. Frequently asked questions

</Admonition>

By default, Postgres functions are tagged with `security invoker` and will run with the permissions of the user that calls it. In the case of Auth Hooks, `supabase_auth_admin`  is the invoker and it will run with the permissions of `supabase_auth_admin`.

In contrast, the `security definer` tag specifies that the hook is to be executed with the privileges of the user that owns it.  In the case of functions created via the Supabase Dashboard this is `postgres` which does not have permissions over the Auth schema. Introducing a `security definer` tag could prevent Supabase Auth from having the appropriate permissions to access tables or execute functions.

As with the previous examples above you will need to grant appropriate permissions to the functions and tables involved.

```sql
grant execute
	on function public.your_function_name
	to supabase_auth_admin;

revoke execute
	on function public.your_function_name
	from authenticated, anon;
```

### Timeouts

Hook timeouts are controlled by a `local` statement timeout scoped to the Postgres Function Hook. Ensure that your hooks complete within **2 seconds** to avoid any errors

### Testing the Hook

> We strongly recommend testing the hook prior to going into production via [PgTAP](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/pgtap) or similar. You can enable the extension under Database > Extensions > PgTap

Author: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend testing the hook prior to going into production via [PgTAP](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/pgtap) or similar. You can enable the extension under `Database > Extensions > PgTap`
```

> Here's an example of what a test could look like for an MFA Verification test.

Author: ```suggestion
Here's an example of what a test could look like for an MFA Verification hook.
```

In general, Supabase Auth will ignore all fields other than the `error` field attached to the returned JSON.

Example output:
```jsx
{
  "error": {
    "http_code": 429,
    "message": "You can only verify a factor once very 10 seconds."
  }
}
```

### Assigning Hook Permissions

You will need to assign additional permissions to the hook as well as the tables that it will interact with.

By default, Supabase Auth will invoke a hook with the `supabase_auth_admin` role and the `supabase_auth_admin` role does not have permissions to modify the `public` schema - you will need to grant the role additional permissions to execute the function you have defined:

```sql
grant execute
	on function public.custom_access_token_hook
	to supabase_auth_admin;
```

Also revoke permissions from the `authenticated` and `anon` roles to ensure the function is not accessible by Supabase Serverless APIs.

```sql
revoke execute
	on function public.custom_access_token_hook
	from authenticated, anon;
```

<Admonition type="warning">
Avoid adding a `security definer` tag to the function to avoid permission errors.
</Admonition>

> At time of writing, Postgres functions have an implicit tag of `security invoker` and will run with the permissions of the user that calls it. In the case of Auth Hooks, `supabase_auth_admin`  is the invoker and it will run with the permissions of `supabase_auth_admin`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At time of writing, Postgres functions have an implicit tag of `security invoker` and run with the permissions of the calling user. In the case of Auth Hooks, `supabase_auth_admin`  is the invoker and hook functions run with the permissions of `supabase_auth_admin`.
```

The `security definer` tag specifies that the hook is to be executed with the privileges of the user that owns it.  In the case of functions created via the Supabase Dashboard this is `postgres` which does not have permissions over the Auth schema. Introducing a `security definer` tag could prevent Supabase Auth from having the appropriate permissions to access tables or execute functions.

### Timeouts

> Hook timeouts are controlled by a `local` statement timeout scoped to the Postgres Function Hook. Ensure that your hooks complete within **2 seconds** to avoid any errors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hook timeouts are controlled by a `local` statement timeout scoped to the Postgres Function Hook. Ensure that your hooks complete within **2 seconds** to avoid any errors.
```

### Testing the Hook

> We strongly recommend testing the hook prior to going into production via [PgTAP](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/extensions/pgtap) or similar. You can enable the extension under `Database > Extensions > PgTAP`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend testing the hook prior to going into production via [PgTAP](/docs/guides/database/extensions/pgtap) or similar. You can enable the extension under `Database > Extensions > PgTAP`
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is a very useful section. I'd maybe include it as an example for one of the hooks?

> Here's an example of what a `PgTAP` test could look like for an MFA Verification hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example of a `PgTAP` test for an MFA Verification hook:
```

```sql
begin;
select plan (1);

-- table to store test results
create temporary table test_results (

>   name text primary key
>   , result boolean
>   , debug text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  name text primary key,
  result boolean,
  debug text
```

we style all other sql blocks in docs with trailing commas so let's just that for consistency

);

-- function to record test result when run inside a block with vars
create or replace function tests.record_result(name text, result boolean, debug text DEFAULT NULL)
  returns void language plpgsql as $$
begin
  insert into test_results(name, result, debug) values (name, result, debug);
end;
$$;

do $$
  declare

>      -- Arrange and setup any variables used in the test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     -- Arrange and set up any variables used in the test
```

`set up` is the verb, `setup` is the noun

    _user1 uuid = '00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001';
    _factor1 uuid = 'FFFFFFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFFFFFFFFF1';
    _valid_user1_event jsonb = jsonb_build_object('user_id', _user1, 'factor_id', _factor1, 'valid', true);
    _invalid_user1_event jsonb = jsonb_build_object('user_id', _user1, 'factor_id', _factor1, 'valid', false);
    _result jsonb;
  begin
    set search_path to 'public';

    insert into auth.users(id) values (_user1);

    -- Act and run the function
    perform tests.record_result(

>       'Valid event result'
>       , (select hook_mfa_verification_attempt(_valid_user1_event)) ->> 'decision' = 'continue'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      'Valid event result',
      (select hook_mfa_verification_attempt(_valid_user1_event)) ->> 'decision' = 'continue'
```

    );

    -- Add further test cases here
  end;
$$;

set search_path to 'extensions';

-- Assert that the desired result is received
select set_eq(
  $$ select name, result, debug from test_results $$,

>   $$ select * from (values
>     , ('Valid event result', true, null)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  $$ select * from (values,
    ('Valid event result', true, null)
```

  ) as t $$,
  'MFA Auth hook tests:'
);

select * from finish();
rollback;
````

### Connecting the Hook

> In the dashboard, navigate to `Authentication > Hooks (Beta)` and select the appropriate PostgreSQL function from the dropdown menu.

Reviewer 2: dashboard link here?

- Sign out users who have too many invalid verification attempts.
- Count, rate limit, or ban sign-ins.

### Inputs

Supabase Auth will supply the following fields to your hook:

- `factor_id` Unique identifier for the MFA factor being verified. 
- `user_id` Unique identifier for the user.
- `valid` Whether the verification attempt was valid. For TOTP, this means that the six digit code was correct (true) or incorrect (false).

Example payload:

```json
{
	"factor_id": "6eab6a69-7766-48bf-95d8-bd8f606894db",
	"user_id": "3919cb6e-4215-4478-a960-6d3454326cec",
	"valid": true,
}
```

### Outputs

Return this if your hook processed the input without errors.

- `decision` A string containing the decision on whether to allow authentication to move forward. Use `reject` to deny the verification attempt and log the user out of all active sessions. Use `continue` to use the default Supabase Auth behavior.
- `message` The message to show the user if the decision was `reject`.

Example output:

```json
{
   "decision": "reject",
   "message" : "You have exceeded maximum number of MFA attempts."
}
```
### Example: Limit Failed MFA Verification Attempts

> <Tabs

Reviewer 2: Right now the tabs look like this so there's not much purpose to having the tab:

<img width="883" alt="image" src="https://github.com/supabase/supabase/assets/26616127/29924ea8-ce91-421b-acc4-ecb6c6a9bdeb">

I think what you want to do is have one global `Tabs` section, then have three `TabPanels` within it corresponding to the three different hooks

Author: That could work too - I've kept the tabs gone ahead and added a draft example for each extensibility point but let me know if another style of organizing the content is preferred

  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>

> <TabPanel id="add-admin-role" label="Limit Failed MFA Verification Attempts">

Reviewer: Can you make sure these IDs are correct, they end up in the URL.

> Imagine that your company requires that a user can only input an incorrect MFA Verification code every 2 seconds and not more than that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine that your company requires that a user can input an incorrect MFA Verification code no more than once every 2 seconds.
```

#### Database Setup

> First you need to create a table that will record the last time a user had an incorrect MFA verification attempt for a factor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dreate a table to record the last time a user had an incorrect MFA verification attempt for a factor.
```

> You can do this by creating a table such as:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```sql
create table public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts (
  user_id uuid not null,
  factor_id uuid not null,
  last_failed_at timestamp not null default now(),
  primary key (user_id, factor_id)
);
```

> Then you should create a hook which will read and enter information into this table. Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a hook to read and write information to this table. For example:
```

						'http_code', 429,
						'message',   'Please wait a moment before trying again.'));
			end if;

			-- record this failed attempt
			insert into public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts
				(
					user_id,
					factor_id,
					last_refreshed_at
				)
				values
				(
					event->'user_id',
					event->'factor_id',
					now()
				)
				on conflict
			do update
				set last_refreshed_at = now();

			-- finally let Supabase Auth do the default behavior for a failed attempt
			return jsonb_build_object('decision', 'continue');
		end;
	$$;

-- Assign appropriate permissions and revoke access
grant execute
	on function public.hook_mfa_verification_attempt
	to supabase_auth_admin;

grant all
	on table public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts
	to supabase_auth_admin;

revoke execute
	on function public.hook_mfa_verification_attempt
	from authenticated, anon;

revoke all
	on table public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts
	from authenticated, anon;
```
</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Password Verification Attempts Hook

Imagine that you wish to increase security beyond the requirements of the default password implementation in order to fulfill security or compliance requirements.

> As the hook runs on unauthenticated requests, malicious users can abuse the hook by calling it multiple times.  Pay extra care when using the hook as you can unintentionally block legitimate users from accessing your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As this hook runs on unauthenticated requests, malicious users can abuse the hook by calling it multiple times.  Pay extra care when using the hook as you can unintentionally block legitimate users from accessing your application.
```

Check if a password is valid prior to taking any additional action to ensure the user is legitimate. Instead of blocking further verification attempts, consider sending an email or notification to an administrator via a trigger instead.

### Inputs

- `user_id` Unique identifier for the user attempting to sign in. Correlate this to the `auth.users` table.
- `valid` Whether the password verification attempt was valid.

```json
{
	"user_id": "3919cb6e-4215-4478-a960-6d3454326cec",
	"valid": true,
}
```

### Outputs

Return these only if your hook processed the input without errors.

- `decision` A string containing the decision whether to allow authentication to move forward. Use `reject` to completely reject the verification attempt and log the user out of all active sessions. Use `continue` to use the default Supabase Auth behavior.
- `message` The message to show the user if the decision was `reject`.
- `should_logout_user` Whether to logout a user if a `reject` decision is issued. Has no effect when a `continue` decision is issued.

Example output:

```json
{
   "decision": "reject",

>    "message" : "You have exceeded maximum number of MFA attempts.",

Reviewer 2: this is for password not MFA right?

Author: Yes, thanks!

   "should_logout_user": "false"
}
```

### Example: Limit Failed Password Verification Attempts

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>
<TabPanel id="add-admin-role" label="Limit Failed Password Verification Attempts">

> As part of new security measures within the company, users can only input an incorrect password every 10 seconds and not more than that. You are charged with impelementing a hook to enforce this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of new security measures within the company, users can only input an incorrect password every 10 seconds and not more than that. You want to write a hook to enforce this.
```

#### Database Setup

> First you need to create a table that will record the last time a user had an incorrect password verification attempt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a table to record each user's last incorrect password verification attempt.
```

> You can do this by creating a table such as:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```sql

> create table public.password_failed_verification_attempts (
> 	user_id uuid not null,
>   last_failed_at timestamp not null default now(),
>   primary key (user_id)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
create table public.password_failed_verification_attempts (
    user_id uuid not null,
    last_failed_at timestamp not null default now(),
    primary key (user_id)
```

);
```

> Then you should create a hook which will read and enter information into this table. Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a hook which to read and write information to this table. For example:
```

```sql
create function public.hook_password_verification_attempt(event jsonb)
returns jsonb
language plpgsql
as $$
	declare
		last_failed_at timestamp;
	begin
		if event->'valid' is true
		then

> 			-- code is valid, accept it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			-- password is valid, accept it
```

		insert into public.password_failed_verification_attempts
			(
				user_id,
				last_failed_at
			)
			values
			(
				event->'user_id',
				now()
			)
			on conflict
        do update
          set last_failed_at = now();

		-- finally let Supabase Auth do the default behavior for a failed attempt
		return jsonb_build_object('decision', 'continue');
	end;
	$$;

-- Assign appropriate permissions
grant execute
	on function public.hook_password_verification_attempt
	to supabase_auth_admin;

grant all
	on table public.password_failed_verification_attempts
	to supabase_auth_admin;

revoke execute
	on function public.hook_password_verification_attempt
	from authenticated, anon;

revoke all
	on table public.password_failed_verification_attempts
	from authenticated, anon;
```
</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Custom Access Token Hook

The custom access token hook runs before a token is issued and allows you to add additional claims based on the authentication method used or add additional metadata to select users.

Claims returned must conform to our specification. Supabase Auth will check for these claims after the hook is run and return an error if they are not present.

> Here's a listing of all fields currently available on an access token:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the fields currently available on an access token:
```

| Field           | Is Required Claim |
|-----------------|-------------------|
| `aud`           | Yes               |
| `exp`           | Yes               |
| `jti`           | No                |
| `iat`           | Yes               |
| `iss`           | No                |
| `nbf`           | No                |
| `sub`           | Yes               |
| `email`         | Yes               |
| `phone`         | Yes               |
| `app_metadata`  | No                |
| `user_metadata` | No                |
| `role`          | Yes               |
| `aal`           | Yes               |
| `amr`           | No                |
| `session_id`    | No                |

### Inputs

> - `user_id`Unique identifier for the user attempting to sign in. Correlate this to the `auth.users` table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `user_id` Unique identifier for the user attempting to sign in. Correlate this to the `auth.users` table.
```

- `claims` Claims which are attached to the access token.
- `authentication_method` the authentication method used to request the access token. Possible values include:
`oauth`, `password`, `otp`, `totp`, `recovery`, `invite`, `sso/saml`, `magiclink`, `email/signup`, `email_change`, `token_refresh`.

### Outputs

Return these only if your hook processed the input without errors.

- `claims` A json containing the updated claims after the hook has been run.

### Example: Add Custom Claims to Token

<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>
<TabPanel id="add-admin-role" label="Add Admin Role">

> Your company would like to allow users with a `@supabase.com` email account to perform restricted actions. To support this, users who are registered as admins with the company should be accorded the `admin` role.

Reviewer 2: from what I can see the function doesn't currently check if the users are admins right? it just automatically makes everybody with a `@supabase.com` email an admin?

- Support legacy systems by integrating with identity credentials from external authentication systems
- Add additional custom claims to your JWT

You can use hooks at specific points along an Auth flow to perform custom behaviour via PostgreSQL Functions.  Currently, the following hooks are available:

**Teams and** **Enterprise**

- MFA Verification Attempt Hook
- Password Verification Attempt Hook

**Free**

- Custom Access Token Hook

Below is a flow chart illustrating how Supabase Auth makes use of an Auth Hook:

<Mermaid
 chart={`flowchart TD
    subgraph Supabase Auth
    Start[Event Occurs] --> DecisionA{Is a Hook defined?}

    ValidityCheck --Yes-->ContinueFlow[Continue with flow]
    ValidityCheck --No-->Error(Return Error)

    DecisionA -- No ---->H[Continue with Supabase Default Behaviour]
    H--> ValidityCheck{Is response valid?}
    DecisionA --Yes--->ValidateInput((Validate Inputs))
        ValidateOutput -->ContinueFlow
    end

    subgraph Auth Hook
    ValidateInput ---->CallHook[Execute PostgreSQL Function]

    CallHook ---> ValidateOutput((Validate Outputs))
    end`}
    />

## Use Cases

> Based on user feedback, we decided on a few use cases to illustrate how a hook. These use cases are not exhaustive and you can opt to [write your own hook](#writing-your-own-hook) if you have a use case which doesn’t fit any of the examples below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Based on user feedback, we decided on a few use cases to illustrate how a hook works. These use cases are not exhaustive and you can opt to [write your own hook](#writing-your-own-hook) if you have a use case which doesn’t fit any of the examples below.
```

> Based on user feedback, we decided on a few use cases to illustrate how a hook works. These use cases are not exhaustive and you can opt to [write your own hook](#writing-your-own-hook) if you have a use case which doesn’t fit any of the examples below.

Author: Switched to describing points instead of hooks and section about writing a hook before the section with examples

## MFA Verification Attempt Hook

Depending on your security or compliance requirements, you may need to enforce stricter restrictions beyond the default [Supabase MFA implementation](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/auth-mfa).

For such scenarios, the MFA Verification Attempt hook can allow you to add additional checks to:

- Ask users to wait a set time between verification attempts, to limit the number of attempts that can be done in a period of time.

> - Force sign out users if they have too many invalid verification attempts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sign out users who have too many invalid verification attempts.
```

> - Count, rate limit, ban or do other actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Count, rate limit, or ban signins.
```

### Inputs

Supabase Auth will supply the following fields to your hook:

- `factor_id` Unique identifier for the MFA factor the user is verifying. Correlate this to the `auth.mfa_factors` table.

> - `user_id` Unique identifier for the user. Correlate this with `auth.users`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `user_id` Unique identifier for the user.
```

> - `valid` Whether the verification attempt was valid, in the case for TOTP this means that the six digit code was correct (true) or incorrect (false). The hook will generally receive true once, and false many times for the same user and factor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `valid` Whether the verification attempt was valid. For TOTP, this means that the six digit code was correct (true) or incorrect (false). The hook will generally receive true once, and false many times for the same user and factor.
```

Reviewer 3: > The hook will generally receive true once, and false many times for the same user and factor.

this statement also sounds confusing to me

Example payload:

```json
{
	"factor_id": "6eab6a69-7766-48bf-95d8-bd8f606894db",
	"user_id": "3919cb6e-4215-4478-a960-6d3454326cec",
	"valid": true,
}
```

### Outputs

In exchange your hook should return a JSON object with these fields set:

> ********************************On Success********************************

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to use actual headers here, an `h4` would work well

> Return these only if your hook processed the input without errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Return this if your hook processed the input without errors.
```

> In exchange your hook should return back a JSON object with these fields set:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In exchange your hook should return a JSON object with these fields set:
```

- `decision` A string containing the decision on whether to allow authentication to move forward. Use `reject` to completely reject the verification attempt and log the user out of all active sessions. Use `continue` to use the default Supabase Auth behavior.
- `message` The message to show the user if the decision was `reject`.

Example output:

```json
{
   "decision": "reject",
   "message" : "You have exceeded maximum number of MFA attempts."
}
```

****************On Error****************

> Return this if your hook processed the input with some error.

Reviewer 2: I'm not entirely clear on what should be a rejection versus an error. I thought perhaps an error would be a server error (application's fault) while a rejection is a rule violation (user's fault), but this example of verifying a factor too often sounds more like a user error, in line with the too many invalid attempts above

- `error` An object that contains information about the error.
    - `http_code` A number indicating the HTTP code to be returned. If not set, the code is HTTP 500 Internal Server Error.
    - `message` A message to be returned in the HTTP response. Must be set.
- In general all other fields attached to the returned JSON are ignored.

Example output:

```jsx
{
  "error": {
    "http_code": 429,

>     "message": "You can only verify a factor once very 10 seconds."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "message": "You can only verify a factor once every 10 seconds."
```

  }
}
```

> ## Password Verification Attempts Hook

Reviewer: Add a warning here that explains the following:

Because this hook runs on _unauthenticated_ requests, this function can be called many times by just about anyone. Be careful when using this hook to prevent users from entering your app, as you can accidentally create a vulnerability where attackers can use this feature from preventing legitimate users to enter.

General recommendations:

- Always check if the password is valid first, before taking any additional action. This is a sure signal that the user is legitimate.
- Instead of blocking further password verification attempts, you can use this function to trigger an email or other notification to the user or administrator in your system.

---

In that direction, can you adjust the example to reflect these recommendations?

> As with the MFA Verification Hooks, you may wish to increase security beyond the requirements of the default password implementation. You may need to do so meet compliance requirements set out by your client or you might be working in a field where data is sensitive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As with the MFA Verification Hooks, you may wish to increase security beyond the requirements of the default password implementation in order to fulfil security or compliance requirements.
```

- `message` The message to show the user if the decision was `reject`.
- `should_logout_user` Whether to logout a user if a `reject` decision is issued. Has no effect when a `continue` decision is issued.

Example output:

```json
{
   "decision": "reject",
   "message" : "You have exceeded maximum number of MFA attempts.",
   "should_logout_user": "false"
}
```

****************On Error****************

Return this if your hook processed the input with some error.

- `error` An object that contains information about the error.
    - `http_code` A number indicating the HTTP code to be returned. If not set, the code is HTTP 500 Internal Server Error.
    - `message` A message to be returned in the HTTP response. Must be set.
- In general all other fields attached to the returned JSON are ignored.

Example output:

```jsx
{
  "error": {
    "http_code": 429,
    "message": "You can only verify a factor once very 10 seconds."
  }
}
```

## Custom Access Token Hook

> You may wish to add additional claims based on the authentication method used or add additional metadata to select users. The custom access token hook runs before a token is issued and allows you to add claims.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The custom access token hook runs before a token is issued and allows you to add additional claims based on the authentication method used or add additional metadata to select users.
```

### Inputs

- `user_id`Unique identifier for the user attempting to sign in. Correlate this to the `auth.users` table.
- `claims` Claims which are attached to the access token.

> - `authentication_method` the authentication method used to request for the access token. Possible values include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `authentication_method` the authentication method used to request the access token. Possible values include:
```

    - `oauth`
    - `password`
    - `otp`
    - `totp`
    - `recovery`
    - `invite`
    - `sso/saml`
    - `magiclink`
    - `email/signup`
    - `email_change`

>     - `token_refresh`

Reviewer: These look too long, maybe add them `as`, `a`, `list`?

### Outputs

In exchange your hook should return back a JSON object with these fields set:

********************************On Success********************************

Return these only if your hook processed the input without errors.

- `claims` A json containing the updated claims after the hook has been run

****************On Error****************

Return this if your hook processed the input with some error.

- `error` An object that contains information about the error.
    - `http_code` A number indicating the HTTP code to be returned. If not set, the code is HTTP 500 Internal Server Error.
    - `message` A message to be returned in the HTTP response. Must be set.

> - In general all other fields attached to the returned JSON are ignored.

Reviewer: You can move this duplicate error explanation to the technical overview or the section about writing hooks.

<Admonition type="warn">
Claims returned must conform to our specification. While you are free to add claims, you can only remove the `user_metadata` and app_metadata claims as we rely on the rest  of the claims for proper functioning of the service.

> </Admonition>

Reviewer: This shouldn't be an admonition. It should be explained properly at the top of the hook's description. Please add the list of claims to the User Sessions page and link to them here.

Reviewer 3: we should also call out the claims that can't be removed (prevented by us) like the `role` , `exp`, etc...

  }
}
```

## Examples

<Accordion
 type="default"
  openBehaviour="multiple"
  chevronAlign="right"
  justified
  size="medium"
  className="text-foreground-light">
<div className="border-b pb-3">
### Example: Limit Failed MFA Verification Attempts
<Accordion.Item
        header={<span className="text-foreground font-bold">Details </span>}
        id={`limit-failed-mfa-verification-attempts`}
      >

****Scenario****

You wish to limit the number of failed MFA verification attempts a user can have in an amount of time. A user can only input an incorrect code every 2 seconds and not more than that.

****************************Database Setup****************************

First you need to create a table that will record the last time a user had an incorrect MFA verification attempt for a factor.

You can do this by creating a table such as:

```sql
create table public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts (
  user_id uuid not null,
  factor_id uuid not null,
  last_failed_at timestamp not null default now(),
  primary key (user_id, factor_id)
);
```

Then you should create a hook which will read and enter information into this table. Example:

> ```sql

Reviewer: For all SQL code snippets, try to use `  ` tabs to cut down on visual noise on the page.

	on function public.hook_mfa_verification_attempt
	from authenticated, anon;

revoke all
	on table public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts
	from authenticated, anon;
```

</Accordion.Item>
</div>
</Accordion>

<Accordion
 type="default"
  openBehaviour="multiple"
  chevronAlign="right"
  justified
  size="medium"
  className="text-foreground-light">
<div className="border-b pb-3">
### Example: Limit Failed Password Verification Attempts
<Accordion.Item
        header={<span className="text-foreground font-bold">Details </span>}
        id={`limit-failed-password-verification-attempts`}
      >

****Scenario****

You wish to limit the number of failed password verification attempts a user can have in an amount of time. A user can only input an incorrect password every 10 seconds and not more than that.

****************************Database Setup****************************

First you need to create a table that will record the last time a user had an incorrect password verification attempt.

You can do this by creating a table such as:

``sql
create table public.password_failed_verification_attempts (
	user_id uuid not null,
  last_failed_at timestamp not null default now(),

>   primary key (user_id, factor_id)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  primary key (user_id, factor_id)
```

no `factor_id` in this one right?

Author: ah yes, good catch. Thanks!

```sql
create function public.hook_password_verification_attempt(event jsonb)
	returns jsonb
  language plpgsql
  as $$
	declare
		last_failed_at timestamp;
	begin
		if event->'valid' is true
		then
			-- code is valid, accept it
			return jsonb_build_object('decision', 'continue');
		end if;

		select last_failed_at into last_failed_at
			from public.password_failed_verification_attempts
			where
				user_id = event->'user_id'

		if last_failed_at is not null and now() - last_failed_at < interval '10 seconds'
		then
			-- last attempt was done too quickly
			return jsonb_build_object(
				'error', jsonb_build_object(
					'http_code', 429,
					'message',   'Please wait a moment before trying again.'));
		end if;

		-- record this failed attempt
		insert into public.password_failed_verification_attempts
			(
				user_id,
				last_failed_at
			)
			values
			(
				event->'user_id',
				now()
			)
			on conflict
        do update
          set last_failed_at = now();

		-- finally let Supabase Auth do the default behavior for a failed attempt
		return jsonb_build_object('decision', 'continue');
	end;
	$$;
```

> Supabase Auth will invoke this function with the `supabase_auth_admin` role which does not have permissions to modify the `public` schema. So you should grant it appropriate permissions:

Reviewer 2: these explanations about granting and revoking permissions would also be good candidates for moving into the explainer up top

```sql
grant execute
	on function public.hook_password_verification_attempt
	to supabase_auth_admin;

grant all
	on table public.password_failed_verification_attempts
	to supabase_auth_admin;
```

Finally to make sure this function and table are not accessible from Supabase Serverless APIs, revoke those permissions from the `authenticated` and `anon` roles:

```sql
revoke execute
	on function public.hook_password_verification_attempt
	from authenticated, anon;

revoke all
	on table public.password_failed_verification_attempts
	from authenticated, anon;
```
</Accordion.Item>
</div>
</Accordion>

<Accordion
 type="default"
  openBehaviour="multiple"
  chevronAlign="right"
  justified
  size="medium"
  className="text-foreground-light">
<div className="border-b pb-3">
### Example: Add Custom Claims to Token
<Accordion.Item
        header={<span className="text-foreground font-bold">Details </span>}
        id={`add-custom-claims-to-token`}
      >

****Scenario****

> You wish to assign roles to users. In particular, you wish to assign users with a `@supabase.com` email account a role of admin so that they can perform restricted actions

Reviewer: Maybe be more direct in the scenario. You can word it something like:

Often you find yourself needing to assign different permissions to different users. One way of doing this is by adding a custom `admin` boolean property in the `user_metadata` section of the JWT, which can then be picked up by RLS policies or your backend APIs.

...

Then, instead of using the email-domain approach, which I don't think is very useful in general, maybe you can fetch from a table `public.admins` which has a `user_id` column referencing if the user is an admin or not.

begin
  insert into test_results(name, result, debug) values (name, result, debug);
end;
$$;

do $$
  declare
     -- Arrange and setup any variablese user in the test
    _user1 uuid = '00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001';
    _factor1 uuid = 'FFFFFFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFF-FFFFFFFFFFF1';
    _valid_user1_event jsonb = jsonb_build_object('user_id', _user1, 'factor_id', _factor1, 'valid', true);
    _invalid_user1_event jsonb = jsonb_build_object('user_id', _user1, 'factor_id', _factor1, 'valid', false);
    _result jsonb;
  begin
    set search_path to 'public';

    insert into auth.users(id) values (_user1);

    -- Act and run the function
    perform tests.record_result(
      'Valid event result'
      , (select hook_mfa_verification_attempt(_valid_user1_event)) ->> 'decision' = 'continue'
    );

    -- Add further test cases here
  end;
$$;

set search_path to 'extensions';

-- Assert that the desired result is received
select set_eq(
  $$ select name, result, debug from test_results $$,
  $$ select * from (values
    , ('Valid event result', true, null)
  ) as t $$,
  'MFA Auth hook tests:'
);

select * from finish();
rollback;
````

## Connecting the Hook to Supabase Auth

> Head over to `Authentication > Hooks (Beta)` and select the appropriate PostgreSQL function from the dropdown menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the dashboard, navigate to `Authentication > Hooks (Beta)` and select the appropriate PostgreSQL function from the dropdown menu.
```

    insert into public.password_sign_in_attempts (user_id, attempt_id, last_failed_at)
    values (user_id, (event->>'attempt_id')::uuid, now())
    on conflict (user_id, attempt_id)
    do update set last_failed_at = now();

    -- Continue with default behavior
    return jsonb_build_object('decision', 'continue');
  end;
$$;

-- Assign appropriate permissions
grant execute
  on function send_welcome_email
  to supabase_auth_admin;

revoke execute
  on function public.send_welcome_email
  from authenticated, anon;

grant all
  on table public.password_verification_attempts
  to supabase_auth_admin;

revoke all
  on table public.password_verification_attempts
  from authenticated, anon;
```
</TabPanel>
</Tabs>

## Custom Access Token Extensibility Point

The custom access token hook runs before a token is issued and allows you to add additional claims based on the authentication method used or add additional metadata to select users.

Claims returned must conform to our specification. Supabase Auth will check for these claims after the hook is run and return an error if they are not present.

These are the fields currently available on an access token:

> | Field           | Is Required Claim |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Field           | Required |
```

import Layout from '~/layouts/DefaultGuideLayout'
import {CodeBlock, Admonition, Accordion} from 'ui'
import Image from 'next/image'

export const meta = {
  id: 'auth-postgres-hooks',

>   title: 'Auth Hooks (Postgres)',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: 'Auth Hooks',
```

  description: 'Use Supabase Postgres Functions to customize your authentication flow',
}

<Admonition type="info">
Hooks are in beta. They will be available for all projects in early 2024.
</Admonition>

> Supabase allows you to use PostgreSQL functions to alter the default Supabase Auth flow. Developers can use hooks to add custom behavior that's not supported natively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supabase allows you to use Postgres functions to alter the default Supabase Auth flow. Developers can use hooks to add custom behavior that's not supported natively.
```

Hooks help you:

- Track the origin of user signups by adding metadata
- Improve security by adding additional checks to password and multi-factor authentication
- Support legacy systems by integrating with identity credentials from external authentication systems
- Add additional custom claims to your JWT

You can use hooks at specific points along an Auth flow to perform custom behavior via Postgres Functions. These are known as **extensibility points**. The following extensibility points are available:

> | Extensibility Point              | Available on Plan       |
> |----------------------------------|-------------------------|
> | MFA Verification Attempt         | Teams and Enterprise    |
> | Password Verification Attempt    | Teams and Enterprise    |
> | Custom Access Token              | Free                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Extensibility Point              | Available on Plan       |
|----------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Custom Access Token              | Free, Pro                |
| MFA Verification Attempt         | Teams and Enterprise    |
| Password Verification Attempt    | Teams and Enterprise    |
```

You can link a hook to an extensiblity point to signal to Supabase Auth that it should make use of the hook.

Below is a flow chart illustrating how Supabase Auth uses an Auth Hook:

<Image
  alt="Auth Hooks Flowchart"
  width={'1000'}
  height={'400'}
  src="/docs/img/guides/auth-postgres-hooks/hooks-flowchart.png"/>

## Create a Hook

> ### Write a Hook

Reviewer: I think this section is a bit too simplistic. 

Yes, you can mention the template (and less prominently), but the main goal of it should be to explain:

- What does an Auth hook function look like?
- That you can / cannot use JSON/JSONB.
- Link to Postgres docs about JSON/JSONB operators.
- Link to Postgres docs about functions and languages.
- Explain the roles and grants needed for a function.

Author: Sounds good, will include. The initial intention was that by using a template one could sidestep concerns like:

> What does an Auth hook function look like?
> That you can / cannot use JSON/JSONB.

Since the dev can edit the template and not have to worry about what it looks like.

> Link to Postgres docs about JSON/JSONB operators.
> Link to Postgres docs about functions and languages.

Thanks, it's a good suggestion. Let's add that.

In the dashboard, go to `SQL Editor > Templates` and select `Add Auth Hook (General)`. The function for your hook should look like this:

```sql
create or replace function
mfa_verification_attempt(event jsonb) returns jsonb as $$
declare
  -- Add your variables here
begin
  -- Add your logic here
  return response
end;
$$ language plpgsql;
```

> Note that the JSONB operator `?` can't be used when writing a hook, because it is a reserved character in the ORM used by Supabase Auth.

Reviewer: Huh? Where did this come from? It does not follow from anything in the doc so far.

### Handle Hook errors

> Unless otherwise specified, your hook should return errors with the following fields:

Reviewer: Avoid language like "unless" ... 

This is it, this is the spec, it's talking about concrete auth hooks.

You should also add some sentences here to talk about what does an "error" mean in hook terms. It's a runtime error that modifies the behavior of Supabase Auth; not a developer error such as division by zero.

```suggestion
To return an error from a hook, return a JSON object with the following properties:
```

- `error` An object that contains information about the error.
    - `http_code` A number indicating the HTTP code to be returned. If not set, the code is HTTP 500 Internal Server Error.
    - `message` A message to be returned in the HTTP response. Required.

You should return an error if an input in the `event` payload has been processed incorrectly. This error could result from a server error (for example, an unexpected error with the data) or a user error (for example, the user has exceeded the number of available attempts).

> In general, Supabase Auth ignores all fields other than the `error` field attached to the returned JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When returning an error object, Supabase Auth ignores all other fields you may have attached.
```

Example output:

> ```jsx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  "error": {
    "http_code": 429,
    "message": "You can only verify a factor once every 10 seconds."
  }
}
```

> ### Assign Hook permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hook grants and roles
```

You need to assign additional permissions to the hook and the tables that it interacts with.

By default, Supabase Auth invokes hooks with the `supabase_auth_admin` role. This role doesn't have permissions to modify the `public` schema. You need to grant the role permission to execute your hook function:

```sql
grant execute
  on function public.custom_access_token_hook
  to supabase_auth_admin;
```

Also revoke permissions from the `authenticated` and `anon` roles to ensure the function is not accessible by Supabase Serverless APIs.

```sql
revoke execute
  on function public.custom_access_token_hook
  from authenticated, anon;
```

<Admonition type="caution">
Avoid adding a `security definer` tag to the function to avoid permission errors.
</Admonition>

> At time of writing, Postgres functions have an implicit tag of `security invoker` and run with the permissions of the calling user. In the case of Auth Hooks, `supabase_auth_admin`  is the invoker and hook functions run with the permissions of `supabase_auth_admin`.

Reviewer: Avoid language like "at time of writing." It hasn't changed in years, not gonna change ever.

```suggestion
Postgres functions have an implicit tag of `security invoker` and run with the permissions of the calling user. In the case of Auth Hooks, `supabase_auth_admin`  is the invoker and hook functions run with the permissions of `supabase_auth_admin`.
```

This looks like a great place to reference Postgres docs.

> The `security definer` tag executes a function with the privileges of the user who owns it.  In the case of functions created via the Supabase Dashboard, this user is `postgres`, which does not have permissions for the Auth schema. Using `security definer` tag would prevent Supabase Auth from having the appropriate permissions to access tables or execute functions.

Reviewer: Maybe just link to Postgres docs. `security definer` with the correct grants can be easier to work with.

Author: Perhaps we can just link to https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/functions#security-definer-vs-invoker ?

I think we already do a decent job of explaining this there

### Timeouts

Ensure that your hooks complete within **2 seconds** to avoid any errors.

> 

Reviewer: In general, just use one new line between text.

### Connect a Hook

In the dashboard, navigate to [`Authentication > Hooks (Beta)`](/dashboard/project/_/auth/hooks) and select the appropriate PostgreSQL function from the dropdown menu.

> ## MFA Verification Attempt Extensibility Point

Reviewer: Headings should be sentence case:

```suggestion
## Hook: MFA verification attempt
```

Also in general, I don't think I like the `extensibility point` language a lot. It's long and hard to pronounce, why not just use `hook` everywhere?

Author: The main driver towards using the `extensibility point` or `execution point` was to have a way to distinguish between the hook (specific implementation) vs the location at which the hook is called. 

For instance, one might not necessarily use the `Custom Access Token Hook` to mint access tokens even though that is the main use case we anticipate. In this case the `points` terminology provides a way to distinguish between the set of possible cases (`Point`)  vs the specific implementation (`Custom Access Token Hook`)

Open to suggestions if there is a simpler way of doing so though.

- Count, rate limit, or ban sign-ins.

**Inputs**

Supabase Auth will supply the following fields to your hook:

- `factor_id` Unique identifier for the MFA factor being verified. 
- `user_id` Unique identifier for the user.
- `valid` Whether the verification attempt was valid. For TOTP, this means that the six digit code was correct (true) or incorrect (false).

Example payload:

```json
{
	"factor_id": "6eab6a69-7766-48bf-95d8-bd8f606894db",
	"user_id": "3919cb6e-4215-4478-a960-6d3454326cec",
	"valid": true,
}
```

**Outputs**

Return this if your hook processed the input without errors.

- `decision` A string containing the decision on whether to allow authentication to move forward. Use `reject` to deny the verification attempt and log the user out of all active sessions. Use `continue` to use the default Supabase Auth behavior.
- `message` The message to show the user if the decision was `reject`.

Example output:

```json
{
   "decision": "reject",
   "message" : "You have exceeded maximum number of MFA attempts."
}
```
**Examples**
<Tabs
  scrollable
  size="small"
  type="underlined"
  defaultActiveId="js"
  queryGroup="language"
>

> <TabPanel id="limit-failed-mfa-verification-attempts" label="Limit Failed MFA Verification Attempts">

Reviewer: Use sentence case here too:

```suggestion
<TabPanel id="limit-failed-mfa-verification-attempts" label="Limit failed MFA verification attempts">
```

> Imagine that your company requires that a user can input an incorrect MFA Verification code no more than once every 2 seconds.

Reviewer: Maybe use general language, like specifying the requirement more than "imagining."

```suggestion
Natively users can try to enter incorrect MFA verification codes without limit. In some cases, you may be required to limit this behavior to allow users to enter a verification code only once in 2 seconds.
```

> #### Database Setup

Reviewer: Everything is database setup with hooks... split it up better? Maybe no headings at all?

        'error', jsonb_build_object(
          'http_code', 429,
          'message',   'Please wait a moment before trying again.'
        )
      );
    end if;

    -- record this failed attempt
    insert into public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts
      (
        user_id,
        factor_id,
        last_refreshed_at
      )
      values
      (
        event->'user_id',
        event->'factor_id',
        now()
      )
      on conflict do update
        set last_refreshed_at = now();

    -- finally let Supabase Auth do the default behavior for a failed attempt
    return jsonb_build_object('decision', 'continue');
  end;
$$;

-- Assign appropriate permissions and revoke access
grant execute
  on function public.hook_mfa_verification_attempt
  to supabase_auth_admin;

grant all
  on table public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts
  to supabase_auth_admin;

revoke execute
  on function public.hook_mfa_verification_attempt
  from authenticated, anon;

revoke all
  on table public.mfa_failed_verification_attempts
  from authenticated, anon;
```
</TabPanel>
<TabPanel id="send-email-after-failed-attempts" label="Send Email After Failed Verification Attempts">

> Enable the `pg_net` extension under [`Database > Extensions`](/dashboard/project/_/database/extensions)

Reviewer: Maybe add some introduction as to what the example will be doing. Why is pg_net necessary, what service is going to be used to send the email. Adjust the title of the tab accordingly.

> Create a table to record the last time a user had an incorrect MFA verification attempt for a factor.

Reviewer: Let's not just add examples for examples' sake. Try to explain the utility of this example. Why would someone want to use this?
